h1. formtastic_validation

h2. Introduction

Formtastic validation adds client side validation to your forms.

h2. Features

* works with existing formtastic code
* javascript agnostic
* no complicated AJAX. its completely javascript driven
* unobtrusive and very light weight

h2. Dependencies

* "Formtastic":http://github.com/justinfrench/formtastic
* "Validation Reflection":http://github.com/redinger/validation_reflection
* "Live validation":http://github.com/alechill/livevalidation

h2. Installation

<pre>
  $ gem install formtastic_validation
</pre>
 
Remember to add the gem into your config

Then run the generators to add the files on

From your rails root directory:

<pre>
  $ script/generate formtastic_validation
</pre>

This adds a configuration file to config/initializers and a couple of javascript files to public/javascripts

After that you need to add this to your application layout

<pre>
  <head>
    <%= javascript_include_tag 'livevalidation-1.3.min' %>
    <%= javascript_include_tag 'formtastic_validation-0.1.0.min' %>
    <script type="text/javascript">
      function initialize() {
          var formtasticValidation = new FormtasticValidation;
          formtasticValidation.initialize();
      }
    </script>
  </head>
  <body onload="initialize()">
  </body>
</pre>

What the above does:

* it included the livevalidation and formtastic_validation javascript files
* it ran a function that instantiates a FormatasticValidation object and let it call initialize()

h2. Usage

There is nothing to change in your existing code. You should see "Thankyou!" appearing next to fields which passed the validations. Forms which do not fufil the validations will fail to submit.

Validation options work.

h2. CSS Styling

You can style the validation messages with the css selectors

<pre>
.LV_validation_message { ... }   /* the validation message */
.LV_valid { ... }                /* for valid messages */
.LV_invalid { ... }              /* for invalid messages */
</pre>

h2. Caveats

This gem is Rails 2 compatible. Rails 3 update is coming....

Only the following validations work:

# validates_presence_of
# validates_acceptance_of
# validates_confirmation_of
# validates_exclusion_of
# validates_inclusion_of
# validates_numericality_of
# validates_format_of
# validates_length_of

validates_size_of does not work. Do use my "fork":http://rubygems.org/gems/liangzan-validation_reflection of the validation_reflection gem for it to work.

The rest do not work as they depend on server queries.

h2. Alternative implementations

http://github.com/dnclabs/client_side_validations
http://github.com/grimen/validatious-on-rails

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Wong Liang Zan. See LICENSE for details.
